['Enabling Practical Backscatter Communication for ', 'On-body Sensors ', '', 'Pengyu Zhang, Mohammad Rostami, Pan Hu, Deepak Ganesan ', 'College of Information and Computer Sciences ', 'University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003', '{pyzhang, mrostami, panhu, dganesan}@cs.umass.edu ', '', 'ABSTRACT ', 'In this paper, we look at making backscatter practical for ultra-low power on-body sensors by leveraging radios on ex-isting smartphones and wearables (e.g. WiFi and Bluetooth). The dif.culty lies in the fact that in order to extract the weak backscattered signal, the system needs to deal with self inter-ference from the wireless carrier (WiFi or Bluetooth) without relying on built-in capability to cancel or reject the carrier in-terference. ', 'Frequency-shifted backscatter (or FS-Backscatter) is based on a novel idea — the backscatter tag shifts the carrier signal to an adjacent non-overlapping frequency band (i.e. adja-cent WiFi or Bluetooth band) and isolates the spectrum of the backscattered signal from the spectrum of the primary signal to enable more robust decoding. We show that this enables communication of up to 4.8 meters using commer-cial WiFi and Bluetooth radios as the carrier generator and receiver. We also show that we can support a range of bi-trates using packet-level and bit-level decoding methods. We build on this idea and show that we can also leverage multi-ple radios typically present on mobile and wearable devices to construct multi-carrier or multi-receiver scenarios to im-prove robustness. Finally, we also address the problem of designing an ultra-low power tag that can frequency shift by 20MHz while consuming tens of micro-watts. Our results show that FS-Backscatter is practical in typical mobile and static on-body sensing scenarios while only using commod-ity radios and antennas. ', '', 'CCS Concepts ', '.Networks → Network architectures; Wireless access net-works; ', 'Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro.t or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation on the .rst page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is per-mitted. To copy otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci.c permission and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org. ', 'SIGCOMM ’16, August 22-26, 2016, Florianopolis , Brazil ', '. 2016 ACM. ISBN 978-1-4503-4193-6/16/08. . . $15.00 DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2934872.2934901 ', '']

***Repl Closed***
